\chapter{Conclusions}\label{ch:conclusion}
\section{Contributions}

This work has provided a generic geologic repository library apropriate for 
systems analysis. Capable of thermal transport, hydrologic contaminant 
transport, and integrated dynamically within a fuel cycle simulation code,
\Cyder is the first of its kind. 

A set of basic capabilities within the \Cyder library have been developed and
validated and an assortment of advanced features and data are functional.
The \Cyder source code in which these models are implemented as well as 
associated documentation are freely available to interested researchers and 
potential model developers. The application programming interface to this 
software library is intentionally general, facilitating the incorporation of 
the models presented here within external software tools in need of a 
multicomponent repository model.

Furthermore, this work contributes to an expanding ecosystem of computational 
models available for use with the Cyclus fuel cycle simulator. This hydrologic 
nuclide transport library, by virtue of its capability to modularly integrate 
with the Cyclus fuel cycle simulator has laid the foundation for integrated 
disposal option analysis in the context of fuel cycle options. 

\section{Suggested Future Work}
It is hoped that \Cyder will benefit from continued development and use. Future 
development efforts will likely be led by developer use cases, but are likely 
to include a number of advanced features that have the potential to extend the 
capabilities of this tool in significant ways. 

One such feature may be the incorporation of fracture enabled transport in a 
radionuclide transport model may benefit analyses of geologies such as granite 
which exhibit significant cracking. Similarly, incorporation of a biosphere 
model in the far field would substantively benefit the calculation of fuel 
cycle metrics related to human and environmental effects and will support 
myriad expected use cases of the tool.
