% LLNL
The analytic model, created at \gls{LLNL} for the \gls{UFD} campaign seeks to 
inform heat limited waste capacity calculations for each lithology, for many 
waste package loading densities, and for many fuel cycle options 
\cite{hardin_generic_2011, greenberg_investigations_2012, 
greenberg_application_2012}. It employs an analytic model from Carslaw and 
Jaeger and is implemented in MathCAD \cite{carslaw_conduction_1959, 
ptc_mathcad_2010}.  The integral solver in the MathCAD toolset is the primary 
calculation engine for the analytic MathCAD thermal model, which relies on 
superposition of integral solutions.  

\subsection{Calculation Method}

The model consists of two conceptual regions, an external region representing 
the host rock and an internal region representing the waste form, package, and 
buff \gls{EBS} within the disposal tunnel wall. The first region is taken to be  
a transient calculation unit.  Since the thermal mass of the \gls{EBS} is small 
in comparison to the thermal mass of the host rock, the internal region may be 
treated as quasi-steady state. The transient state of the temperature at the 
calculation radius is found with a convolution of the transient external 
solution with the steady state internal solution.  The process is then iterated 
with a one year resolution in order to arrive at a temperature evolution over 
the lifetime of the repository. 

\begin{figure}[h!]
  \begin{center}
    \includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{./chapters/litrev/llnlConcept.eps}
  \end{center}
  \caption{The central package is represented by a finite line source, adjacent 
  packages in the central drift are represented as points, and adjacent disposal 
  tunnes are represented as infinite lines.
  \cite{greenberg_investigations_2012}.}
  \label{fig:llnl}
\end{figure}

The geometric layout of the analytic \gls{LLNL} model in Figure \ref{fig:llnl} 
shows  that the central package is represented by the finite line solution
\begin{align}
  T_{line}(t,x,y,z) &= \frac{1}{8\pi K_{th}} 
  \bigintsss_0^t\!\frac{q_L(t')}{t-t'}e^{ \frac{-\left(x^2 + z^2\right)}{4\alpha_{th} 
  (t-t')} }\nonumber\\ &\cdot\left[ \erf{\left[ \frac{1}{2} \frac{\left( y + 
  \frac{L}{2} \right)}{\sqrt{\alpha_{th}(t-t')}}  \right]} - \erf{\left[ \frac{1}{2} 
  \frac{\left( y - \frac{L}{2} \right)}{\sqrt{\alpha_{th}(t-t')}}  \right]} 
  \right]\,\mathrm{dt'},
  \label{line}
  \intertext{adjacent packages within the central tunnel are represented by the 
  point source solution }
  T_{point}(t,r) &= 
  \frac{1}{8K_{th}\sqrt{\alpha_{th}}\pi^{\frac{3}{2}}}\bigintsss_0^{-t}\!\frac{q(t')}{(t-t')^{\frac{3}{2}}}e^{\frac{-r^2}{4\alpha_{th}(t-t')}}\,\mathrm{dt'},
  \label{point}
  \intertext{and adjacent disposal tunnels are represented by infinite line 
  source solutions}
  T_{\infty line}(t,x,z) &= \frac{1}{4\pi K_{th}} 
  \bigintsss_0^t\!\frac{q_L(t')}{t-t'}e^{ \frac{-\left(x^2 + z^2\right)}{4\alpha_{th} 
  (t-t')} }
  \label{infline}
  \intertext{in infinite homogeneous media, where}
  \alpha_{th} &= ~~\mbox{thermal diffusivity } [m^2\cdot s^{-1}]\nonumber\\
  q(t) &= ~~\mbox{point heat source} [W]\nonumber\\
  \intertext{and}
  q_L(t) &= ~~\mbox{linear heat source} [W\cdot m^{-1}]\nonumber
\end{align}
Superimposed point and line source solutions allow for a notion of the 
repository layout to be modeled in the host rock.

